Skip to main content

Sign in Register

  * Enter e-mail address
  * Enter password Show
  * Remember me

Forgot your password?

**Are you an IOP member?**

Sign into your _Physics World_ account to get access to all available digital
issues of the monthly magazine. Your _Physics World_ account is separate to
any IOP accounts you may have

**Sign in to**

  * Access more than 20 years of online content
  * Manage which e-mail newsletters you want to receive
  * Read about the big breakthroughs and innovations across 13 scientific topics
  * Explore the key issues and trends within the global scientific community

  * Enter e-mail address

This e-mail address will be used to create your account

**Are you an IOP member?**

Create a _Physics World_ account to get access to all available digital issues
of the monthly magazine. Your _Physics World_ account is separate to any IOP
accounts you may have.

**Note:** The verification e-mail to complete your account registration should
arrive immediately. However, in some cases it takes longer. Don't forget to
check your spam folder.

If you haven't received the e-mail in 24 hours, please contact
[customerservices@ioppublishing.org](mailto:customerservices@ioppublishing.org).

  * **Registration is free, quick and easy**   

    * Access more than 20 years of online content
    * Choose which e-mail newsletters you want to receive
    * Read about the big breakthroughs and innovations across 13 scientific topics
    * Explore the key issues and trends within the global scientific community

#### Reset your password

__

Please enter the e-mail address you used to register to reset your password

**Note:** The verification e-mail to change your password should arrive
immediately. However, in some cases it takes longer. Don't forget to check
your spam folder.

If you haven't received the e-mail in 24 hours, please contact
[customerservices@ioppublishing.org](mailto:customerservices@ioppublishing.org)

Enter e-mail address

#### Registration complete

__

**Thank you for registering with _Physics World_**  
If you'd like to change your details at any time, please visit My account

[Close](/)

## Editor's choice

[ ![Optimizing office environments](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/cold-office-
worker-1044874324-iStock_AntonioGuillem-618x412.jpg)
](https://physicsworld.com/a/optical-sensors-could-improve-the-comfort-of-
indoor-temperatures/)

  * [Detectors and sensors](https://physicsworld.com/c/optics-photonics/detectors-sensors/)
  * [Research update](https://physicsworld.com/l/research-updates/)

###  [ Optical sensors could improve the comfort of indoor temperatures
](https://physicsworld.com/a/optical-sensors-could-improve-the-comfort-of-
indoor-temperatures/)

[ ![Two images of the black hole M87*'s shadow. The image at left is dated 11
April 2017, and shows a bright orange fuzzy ring around a dark centre. The
ring is slightly brighter at the left and markedly brighter at the bottom. The
image at right is dated 21 April 2018, and shows a similar ring, but much
brighter at the bottom right, and dimmer at the top
left](https://physicsworld.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/Iljo-
Cho_0-732x373.jpg) ](https://physicsworld.com/a/black-holes-shadow-changes-
from-one-year-to-the-next/)

  * [Astronomy and space](https://physicsworld.com/c/astronomy-space/)
  * [Research update](https://physicsworld.com/l/research-updates/)

###  [ Black hole’s shadow changes from one year to the next
](https://physicsworld.com/a/black-holes-shadow-changes-from-one-year-to-the-
next/)

New analyses advance understanding of complex dynamic processes governing
black holes

  * [Instrumentation and measurement](https://physicsworld.com/c/instrumentation-measurement/)
  * [Research update](https://physicsworld.com/l/research-updates/)

###  [ **Frequency-comb detection of gas molecules achieves parts-per-trillion
sensitivity** ](https://physicsworld.com/a/frequency-comb-detection-of-gas-
molecules-achieves-parts-per-trillion-sensitivity/ "Frequency-comb detection
of gas molecules achieves parts-per-trillion sensitivity")

New sensor offers extreme broadband coverage in the mid-infrared

## Research updates

[ ![Illustration of the production and incorporation of cosmogenic
beryllium-10 into ferromanganese crusts. The main image shows beryllium atoms
\(represented by orange dots\) being produced in an aurora-drenched sky and
then falling down to the bottom of the ocean. An inset image on the right
contains a photo of an ocean crust sample and a graph showing a peak in
beryllium-10 abundance 10 million years ago.](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/Be10-296x197.jpg)
](https://physicsworld.com/a/radioactive-anomaly-appears-in-the-deep-ocean/)

  * [Earth sciences](https://physicsworld.com/c/environment-energy/earth-sciences/)
  * [Research update](https://physicsworld.com/l/research-updates/)

###  [ Radioactive anomaly appears in the deep ocean
](https://physicsworld.com/a/radioactive-anomaly-appears-in-the-deep-ocean/)

[ ![Konstantin Doubrovinski](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/26-02-25-Konstantin-Doubrovinski-333x197.jpg)
](https://physicsworld.com/a/a-model-stretch-explaining-the-rheology-of-
developing-tissue/)

  * [Biophysics](https://physicsworld.com/c/biophysics-bioengineering/biophysics/)
  * [Research update](https://physicsworld.com/l/research-updates/)

###  [ A model stretch: explaining the rheology of developing tissue
](https://physicsworld.com/a/a-model-stretch-explaining-the-rheology-of-
developing-tissue/)

[ ![Image illustrating four different stages of turbulent mixing between two
fluids. The different fluids are represented by cool and warm colours, and the
four stages are set against a background of swirls and
bubbles](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/turbulence1-293x197.jpg)
](https://physicsworld.com/a/quantum-inspired-technique-simulates-turbulence-
with-high-speed/)

  * [Modelling and simulation](https://physicsworld.com/c/mathematics-computation/modelling-simulation/)
  * [Research update](https://physicsworld.com/l/research-updates/)

###  [ Quantum-inspired technique simulates turbulence with high speed
](https://physicsworld.com/a/quantum-inspired-technique-simulates-turbulence-
with-high-speed/)

  * [Particle therapy](https://physicsworld.com/c/medical-physics/particle-therapy/)
  * [Research update](https://physicsworld.com/l/research-updates/)

###  [ **World’s first patient treatments delivered with proton arc therapy**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/worlds-first-patient-treatments-delivered-with-
proton-arc-therapy/ "World’s first patient treatments delivered with proton
arc therapy")

Proton arc therapy offers a superior dose distribution compared with existing
state-of-the-art proton delivery techniques

  * [Planetary science](https://physicsworld.com/c/astronomy-space/planetary-science/)
  * [Research update](https://physicsworld.com/l/research-updates/)

###  [ **Astronomers create a ‘weather map’ for a gas giant exoplanet**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/astronomers-create-a-weather-map-for-a-gas-giant-
exoplanet/ "Astronomers create a ‘weather map’ for a gas giant exoplanet")

Supersonic winds and water vapour feature in new study of WASP-127b

  * [Modelling and simulation](https://physicsworld.com/c/mathematics-computation/modelling-simulation/)
  * [Research update](https://physicsworld.com/l/research-updates/)

###  [ **‘Sneeze simulator’ could improve predictions of pathogen spread**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/sneeze-simulator-could-improve-predictions-of-
pathogen-spread/ "‘Sneeze simulator’ could improve predictions of pathogen
spread")

3D nasal cavity model could also inform the design of masks and ventilation
systems

  * [Materials](https://physicsworld.com/c/materials/)
  * [Research update](https://physicsworld.com/l/research-updates/)

###  [ **Memory of previous contacts affects static electricity on materials**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/memory-of-previous-contacts-affects-static-
electricity-on-materials/ "Memory of previous contacts affects static
electricity on materials")

Important clue found in the mystery of inconsistent triboelectric series

  * [Emerging therapies](https://physicsworld.com/c/medical-physics/emerging-therapies/)
  * [Research update](https://physicsworld.com/l/research-updates/)

###  [ **Wireless deep brain stimulation reverses Parkinson’s disease in
mice** ](https://physicsworld.com/a/wireless-deep-brain-stimulation-reverses-
parkinsons-disease-in-mice/ "Wireless deep brain stimulation reverses
Parkinson’s disease in mice")

A photothermal, nanoparticle-based deep brain stimulation system restored
motor skills in mice with Parkinson’s-like disease

  * [Thin films and coatings](https://physicsworld.com/c/materials/thin-films-coatings/)
  * [Research update](https://physicsworld.com/l/research-updates/)

###  [ **Scientists discover secret of ice-free polar-bear fur**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/scientists-discover-secret-of-ice-free-polar-
bear-fur/ "Scientists discover secret of ice-free polar-bear fur")

Findings could lead to more environmentally-friendly anti-icing surfaces and
lubricants

[ ![](https://physicsworld.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/PN-
image-207x197.jpg)
](https://www.physicsworld.com/account?utm_source=pw&utm_medium=box&utm_campaign=pnnewsletter)

### [Particle and nuclear newsletter
__](https://www.physicsworld.com/account?utm_source=pw&utm_medium=box&utm_campaign=pnnewsletter)

Sign up for our particle and nuclear newsletter! Comprising our pick of the
best recent research updates along with must-read features and opinion pieces,
it brings everything you need to know straight to your inbox every quarter.
Simply sign in to your account and tick the “Particle and nuclear – quarterly”
box to register.

## Physics World podcasts

[ ![](https://physicsworld.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/27-2-25-Margaret-at-
CERN-list-350x197.jpg) ](https://physicsworld.com/a/exploring-cern-physics-
world-visits-the-worlds-leading-particle-physics-lab/)

  * [Particle and nuclear](https://physicsworld.com/c/particle-nuclear/)
  * [Podcasts](https://physicsworld.com/l/audio/)

###  [ Exploring CERN: _Physics World_ visits the world’s leading particle-
physics lab ](https://physicsworld.com/a/exploring-cern-physics-world-visits-
the-worlds-leading-particle-physics-lab/)

[ ![20-2-24 Jim Gates](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/20-2-24-Jim-Gates-350x197.jpg)
](https://physicsworld.com/a/jim-gates-updates-his-theorists-bucket-list-and-
surveys-the-damage-being-done-to-us-science-and-society/)

  * [People](https://physicsworld.com/c/people/)
  * [Podcasts](https://physicsworld.com/l/audio/)

###  [ Jim Gates updates his theorist’s bucket list and surveys the damage
being done to US science and society ](https://physicsworld.com/a/jim-gates-
updates-his-theorists-bucket-list-and-surveys-the-damage-being-done-to-us-
science-and-society/)

[ ![Curled lock of the volcanic material Pele's
hair](https://physicsworld.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/Pele-s-Hair-
Curly_NPS-350x197.jpg) ](https://physicsworld.com/a/threads-of-fire-
uncovering-volcanic-secrets-with-peles-hair-and-tears/)

  * [Earth sciences](https://physicsworld.com/c/environment-energy/earth-sciences/)
  * [Podcasts](https://physicsworld.com/l/audio/)

###  [ Threads of fire: uncovering volcanic secrets with Pele’s hair and tears
](https://physicsworld.com/a/threads-of-fire-uncovering-volcanic-secrets-with-
peles-hair-and-tears/)

## The latest opinion and reviews

[ ![Freeman Dyson](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/2025-02-CP-freeman-dyson-732x412.jpg)
](https://physicsworld.com/a/how-should-scientists-deal-with-politicians-who-
dont-respect-science/)

  * [Culture, history and society](https://physicsworld.com/c/culture-history-society/)
  * [Opinion and reviews](https://physicsworld.com/l/opinion-reviews/)

###  [ How should scientists deal with politicians who don’t respect science?
](https://physicsworld.com/a/how-should-scientists-deal-with-politicians-who-
dont-respect-science/)

[ ![A diverse group of mid adult women attending the expo smile at photos on a
smart phone.](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/2025-02-Forum-Setty-women-at-a-
conference-1177065306-iStock_SDI-Productions-618x412.jpg)
](https://physicsworld.com/a/how-international-conferences-can-help-bring-
women-in-physics-together/)

  * [Diversity and inclusion](https://physicsworld.com/c/people/diversity-inclusion/)
  * [Opinion and reviews](https://physicsworld.com/l/opinion-reviews/)

###  [ How international conferences can help bring women in physics together
](https://physicsworld.com/a/how-international-conferences-can-help-bring-
women-in-physics-together/)

The International Conference on Women in Physics offers the perfect
opportunity for women to come together and share their experiences in physics,
as **Chethana Setty** explains

  * [Careers](https://physicsworld.com/c/people/careers/)
  * [Opinion and reviews](https://physicsworld.com/l/opinion-reviews/)

###  [ **Artisan, architect or artist: what kind of person are you at work?**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/artisan-architect-or-artist-what-kind-of-person-
are-you-at-work/ "Artisan, architect or artist: what kind of person are you at
work?")

**Honor Powrie** believes that we all take on different personas in the
workplace

[ ![](https://physicsworld.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/M-PW-
BN-1124-Podcasts-600x600-1-197x197.jpg)
](https://physicsworld.com/l/audio/?utm_source=pw&utm_medium=box&utm_campaign=podcasts)

### [Physics World podcast
__](https://physicsworld.com/l/audio/?utm_source=pw&utm_medium=box&utm_campaign=podcasts)

Explore our two regular podcast series! _Physics World Weekly_ looks at the
latest events and headlines in physics, as well as featuring short interviews
with scientists and our team of journalists. _Physics World Stories_ takes a
more in-depth look at a topic.

## Read more of our latest articles

[ ![Robotic springtail](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/28_02_2025-springtail_feature-small-122x90.jpg) Read
article: Harvard’s springtail-like jumping robot leaps into action
](https://physicsworld.com/a/harvards-springtail-like-jumping-robot-leaps-
into-action/)

  * [Biophysics and bioengineering](https://physicsworld.com/c/biophysics-bioengineering/)
  * [Blog](https://physicsworld.com/l/blog/)

###  [ **Harvard’s springtail-like jumping robot leaps into action**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/harvards-springtail-like-jumping-robot-leaps-
into-action/ "Harvard’s springtail-like jumping robot leaps into action")

The robotic springtail can jump some 1.4 m, or 23 times its body length

[ ![Artist's impression of IM-2](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/im-1-nova-c-mission-render-160x90.jpg) Read article:
US-led missions launched to investigate the Moon’s water
](https://physicsworld.com/a/us-led-missions-launched-to-investigate-the-
moons-water/)

  * [Astronomy and space](https://physicsworld.com/c/astronomy-space/)
  * [News](https://physicsworld.com/l/news/)

###  [ **US-led missions launched to investigate the Moon’s water**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/us-led-missions-launched-to-investigate-the-
moons-water/ "US-led missions launched to investigate the Moon’s water")

Athena will test water-extraction methods while Lunar Trailblazer will map
water deposits

[ ![Heavy duty: The new transfer arm. \(Courtesy: UHV
Design\)](https://physicsworld.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/featured-
crop_SPP-160x90.jpg) Read article: New transfer arm moves heavier samples in
vacuum ](https://physicsworld.com/a/new-transfer-arm-moves-heavier-samples-in-
vacuum/)

  * [Instrumentation and measurement](https://physicsworld.com/c/instrumentation-measurement/)
  * [Analysis](https://physicsworld.com/l/analysis/)
  * SPONSORED

###  [ **New transfer arm moves heavier samples in vacuum**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/new-transfer-arm-moves-heavier-samples-in-vacuum/
"New transfer arm moves heavier samples in vacuum")

Stiffer, more robust device developed in response to customer demand, says UHV
Design engineering director Jonty Eyres

[ ![25-2-25 Majorana 1](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/25-2-25-Majorana-1-160x90.jpg) Read article: Experts
weigh in on Microsoft’s topological qubit claim
](https://physicsworld.com/a/experts-weigh-in-on-microsofts-topological-qubit-
claim/)

  * [Quantum](https://physicsworld.com/c/quantum/)
  * [Analysis](https://physicsworld.com/l/analysis/)

###  [ **Experts weigh in on Microsoft’s topological qubit claim**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/experts-weigh-in-on-microsofts-topological-qubit-
claim/ "Experts weigh in on Microsoft’s topological qubit claim")

Majorana zero modes exist in a curious superposition between peer review and
press release

[ ![](https://physicsworld.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/Featured-resized-
main-image-144x90.jpg) Read article: How cathode microstructure impacts solid-
state batteries ](https://physicsworld.com/a/how-cathode-microstructure-
impacts-solid-state-batteries/)

  * [Environment and energy](https://physicsworld.com/c/environment-energy/)
  * [Webinar](https://physicsworld.com/l/webinars/)
  * SPONSORED

###  [ **How cathode microstructure impacts solid-state batteries**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/how-cathode-microstructure-impacts-solid-state-
batteries/ "How cathode microstructure impacts solid-state batteries")

Join the audience for a live webinar on 26 March 2025 sponsored by BioLogic
and Hiden Analytical, in partnership with The Electrochemical Society

[ ![Ian Chapman](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/25_02_2025-Ian-Chapman-136x90.jpg) Read article:
Fusion physicist Ian Chapman to head UK Research and Innovation
](https://physicsworld.com/a/fusion-physicist-ian-chapman-to-head-uk-research-
and-innovation/)

  * [Scientific enterprise](https://physicsworld.com/c/scientific-enterprise/)
  * [News](https://physicsworld.com/l/news/)

###  [ **Fusion physicist Ian Chapman to head UK Research and Innovation**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/fusion-physicist-ian-chapman-to-head-uk-research-
and-innovation/ "Fusion physicist Ian Chapman to head UK Research and
Innovation")

Chapman will replace biologist Ottoline Leyser who steps down in June

[ ![Tokamak Energy inside the tokamak](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/2025-02-Speller-LISTING-ST40-Tokamak-Energy-
Inside-160x90.jpg) Read article: The quest for better fusion reactors is
putting a new generation of superconductors to the test
](https://physicsworld.com/a/the-quest-for-better-fusion-reactors-is-putting-
a-new-generation-of-superconductors-to-the-test/)

  * [Nuclear fusion](https://physicsworld.com/c/particle-nuclear/nuclear-fusion/)
  * [Feature](https://physicsworld.com/l/features/)

###  [ **The quest for better fusion reactors is putting a new generation of
superconductors to the test** ](https://physicsworld.com/a/the-quest-for-
better-fusion-reactors-is-putting-a-new-generation-of-superconductors-to-the-
test/ "The quest for better fusion reactors is putting a new generation of
superconductors to the test")

How do we predict the lifetime of superconductors when they are subjected to
conditions that cannot yet be recreated anywhere on Earth?

[ ![LGK Esprit](https://physicsworld.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/Featured-
resized_LGK_Esprit_00005-copy-144x90.jpg) Read article: Precision
radiosurgery: optimal dose delivery with cobalt-60
](https://physicsworld.com/a/precision-radiosurgery-optimal-dose-delivery-
with-cobalt-60/)

  * [Medical physics](https://physicsworld.com/c/medical-physics/)
  * [Webinar](https://physicsworld.com/l/webinars/)
  * SPONSORED

###  [ **Precision radiosurgery: optimal dose delivery with cobalt-60**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/precision-radiosurgery-optimal-dose-delivery-
with-cobalt-60/ "Precision radiosurgery: optimal dose delivery with
cobalt-60")

Join the audience for a live webinar on 2 April 2025 sponsored by Elekta

[ ![LEGO interferometer](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/21_02_2025-LEGO-interferometer-135x90.jpg) Read
article: LEGO interferometer aims to put quantum science in the spotlight
](https://physicsworld.com/a/lego-interferometer-aims-to-put-quantum-science-
in-the-spotlight/)

  * [Education and outreach](https://physicsworld.com/c/people/education-outreach/)
  * [Blog](https://physicsworld.com/l/blog/)

###  [ **LEGO interferometer aims to put quantum science in the spotlight**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/lego-interferometer-aims-to-put-quantum-science-
in-the-spotlight/ "LEGO interferometer aims to put quantum science in the
spotlight")

University of Nottingham researchers have developed a fully functional LEGO
interferometer kit

[ ![IBM's quantum mirage](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/2025-02-quiz-C0195338-Quantum_mirage-featured-
SPL_single-use-only-160x90.jpg) Read article: Test your quantum knowledge in
this fun quiz ](https://physicsworld.com/a/test-your-quantum-knowledge-in-
this-fun-quiz/)

  * [Quantum](https://physicsworld.com/c/quantum/)
  * [Blog](https://physicsworld.com/l/blog/)

###  [ **Test your quantum knowledge in this fun quiz**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/test-your-quantum-knowledge-in-this-fun-quiz/
"Test your quantum knowledge in this fun quiz")

Try this fun multiple-choice quiz to mark International Quantum Year

[ ![Donald Trump at a White House press briefing in February
2025](https://physicsworld.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/2025-02-19-Trump-
White-House-US-government-work-135x90.jpg) Read article: US science faces
unprecedented difficulties under the Trump administration
](https://physicsworld.com/a/us-science-faces-unprecedented-difficulties-
under-the-trump-administration/)

  * [Policy and funding](https://physicsworld.com/c/scientific-enterprise/policy-funding/)
  * [Blog](https://physicsworld.com/l/blog/)

###  [ **US science faces unprecedented difficulties under the Trump
administration** ](https://physicsworld.com/a/us-science-faces-unprecedented-
difficulties-under-the-trump-administration/ "US science faces unprecedented
difficulties under the Trump administration")

**Matin Durrani** looks at the fall out following Donald Trump's re-election
as US president

[ ![Mark Thomson in the LHC tunnel](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/Thomson-202412-315_225-135x90.jpg) Read article:
Incoming CERN director-general Mark Thomson outlines his future priorities
](https://physicsworld.com/a/incoming-cern-director-general-mark-thomson-
outlines-his-future-priorities/)

  * [Particle and nuclear](https://physicsworld.com/c/particle-nuclear/)
  * [Interview](https://physicsworld.com/l/interviews/)

###  [ **Incoming CERN director-general Mark Thomson outlines his future
priorities** ](https://physicsworld.com/a/incoming-cern-director-general-mark-
thomson-outlines-his-future-priorities/ "Incoming CERN director-general Mark
Thomson outlines his future priorities")

Mark Thomson will play a big part in planning what comes next after the Large
Hadron Collider

[ ![18-2-25 Magnonic simulator](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/18-2-25-Magnonic-simulator-160x90.jpg) Read article:
Inverse design configures magnon-based signal processor
](https://physicsworld.com/a/inverse-design-configures-magnon-based-signal-
processor/)

  * [Instrumentation and measurement](https://physicsworld.com/c/instrumentation-measurement/)
  * [Research update](https://physicsworld.com/l/research-updates/)

###  [ **Inverse design configures magnon-based signal processor**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/inverse-design-configures-magnon-based-signal-
processor/ "Inverse design configures magnon-based signal processor")

Notch filter and demultiplexer created in thin magnetic film using current-
loop array

[ ![An illustration of the muon's anomalous magnetic
moment](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/2025-02-Keshavarzi-frontis-RGB-126x90.jpg) Read
article: The muon’s magnetic moment exposes a huge hole in the Standard Model
– unless it doesn’t ](https://physicsworld.com/a/the-muons-magnetic-moment-
exposes-a-huge-hole-in-the-standard-model-unless-it-doesnt/)

  * [Particle and nuclear](https://physicsworld.com/c/particle-nuclear/)
  * [Feature](https://physicsworld.com/l/features/)

###  [ **The muon’s magnetic moment exposes a huge hole in the Standard Model
– unless it doesn’t** ](https://physicsworld.com/a/the-muons-magnetic-moment-
exposes-a-huge-hole-in-the-standard-model-unless-it-doesnt/ "The muon’s
magnetic moment exposes a huge hole in the Standard Model – unless it
doesn’t")

**Alex Keshavarzi** digs into the showdown between two competing Standard
Model predictions of the muon, which may reveal undiscovered particles hiding
in the vacuum

[ ![Mouse receiving plasma treatment](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/18-02-25-plasma-irradiation-146x90.jpg) Read article:
Low-temperature plasma halves cancer recurrence in mice
](https://physicsworld.com/a/low-temperature-plasma-halves-cancer-recurrence-
in-mice/)

  * [Emerging therapies](https://physicsworld.com/c/medical-physics/emerging-therapies/)
  * [Research update](https://physicsworld.com/l/research-updates/)

###  [ **Low-temperature plasma halves cancer recurrence in mice**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/low-temperature-plasma-halves-cancer-recurrence-
in-mice/ "Low-temperature plasma halves cancer recurrence in mice")

Treatment with a cold atmospheric plasma reduced the recurrence rate of
melanoma tumours after surgery by roughly 50%

[ ![17-2-25 KM3NeT crop](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/17-2-25-KM3NeT-crop-160x90.jpg) Read article: Ultra-
high-energy neutrino detection opens a new window on the universe
](https://physicsworld.com/a/ultra-high-energy-neutrino-detection-opens-a-new-
window-on-the-universe/)

  * [Astroparticle physics](https://physicsworld.com/c/astronomy-space/astroparticle-physics/)
  * [Research update](https://physicsworld.com/l/research-updates/)

###  [ **Ultra-high-energy neutrino detection opens a new window on the
universe** ](https://physicsworld.com/a/ultra-high-energy-neutrino-detection-
opens-a-new-window-on-the-universe/ "Ultra-high-energy neutrino detection
opens a new window on the universe")

Particle could have been created by a blazar or a cosmic collision

[ ![The crowd at the San Fermìn festival](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/17-02-25-San-Fermin-festival-Pamplona-148x90.jpg) Read
article: Modelling the motion of confined crowds could help prevent crushing
incidents ](https://physicsworld.com/a/modelling-the-motion-of-confined-
crowds-could-help-prevent-crushing-incidents/)

  * [Modelling and simulation](https://physicsworld.com/c/mathematics-computation/modelling-simulation/)
  * [Research update](https://physicsworld.com/l/research-updates/)

###  [ **Modelling the motion of confined crowds could help prevent crushing
incidents** ](https://physicsworld.com/a/modelling-the-motion-of-confined-
crowds-could-help-prevent-crushing-incidents/ "Modelling the motion of
confined crowds could help prevent crushing incidents")

A new study of how dense human crowds move in confined spaces could help
predict potentially life-threatening collective motions

[ ![Freedom in the equation exhibition](https://physicsworld.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/02/Freedom-in-the-equation_small-135x90.jpg) Read
article: Freedom in the Equation exhibition opens at Harvard Science Centre
](https://physicsworld.com/a/freedom-in-the-equation-exhibition-opens-at-
harvard-science-centre/)

  * [People](https://physicsworld.com/c/people/)
  * [Blog](https://physicsworld.com/l/blog/)

###  [ **Freedom in the Equation exhibition opens at Harvard Science Centre**
](https://physicsworld.com/a/freedom-in-the-equation-exhibition-opens-at-
harvard-science-centre/ "Freedom in the Equation exhibition opens at Harvard
Science Centre")

The exhibition, which is part of the Science at Risk project, runs until 10
March

  * 1
  * 2
  * 3
  * 4
  * 5
  * 6
  * 7
  * 8
  * ...
  * Next
  * Last

  *   *   *   *   *   * 

###  [ Featured employer ](https://www.physicsworldjobs.com/)

_Physics World Jobs_ offers a range of opportunities for jobseekers with a
background in physics or engineering. At all stages of your career, we can
help find the job for you

### Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory

For more than 60 years, the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) has
applied science and technology to make the world a safer place. Its defining
responsibility is ensuring the safety, security and reliability of the
nation’s nuclear deterrent

[**View the employer
profile**](https://www.physicsworldjobs.com/employer/2021/bae-systems-digital-
intelligence/)

###  [ Featured webinar ](https://physicsworld.com/l/webinars/)

Tune into online presentations that allow expert speakers to explain novel
tools and applications

### **Start-stop operation and the degradation impact in electrolysis**

26 February 2025

Join this webinar by The Electrochemical Society to explore the impact of
intermittent operation on electrolyzer degradation

[**View the webinar**](https://physicsworld.com/a/start-stop-operation-and-
the-degradation-impact-in-electrolysis/)

###  [ Featured event ](https://physicsworld.com/events/)

Stay up to date with the latest international conferences, symposia and
exhibitions for interdisciplinary scientists working across academic research
and industry

### SPIE Photonics West 2025

25—30 January 2025 | San Francisco, California, US

SPIE Photonics West is the world’s leading photonics technologies
event.Thousands of people attend Photonics West each year to learn, connect,
and find the latest research and products

[**Vie****w the event**](https://physicsworld.com/event/spie-photonics-
west-2025/)

  *   *   *   *   *   * 

Copyright © 2025 by IOP Publishing Ltd and individual contributors

[cky_video_placeholder_title]

